# Northwind_Sales_Project

## Table of Content

- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Data Sources](data-sources)
- [Tools and Concept Demostrated](tools-and-concept-demonstrated)
- [Explanatory Data Analysis](explanatory-data-analysis)



### Project Overview

This data analysis project aims to provide insight into the sales performance of the Northwind traders over time. By analyzing various aspect of this sales data i seek to identify trends, make data driven recommendations and gain a deeper understanding of the NorthWind traders perfomance.This project  will demonstrate my skills in Excel and PowerBI.

### Data Sources
This data is a public data and its not in any form a real-world company data and its only used for the purpose of learning and showing my data analytic skills.

### Tools and Concept Demostrated
- Microsoft Excel
  - Data cleaning, Pivot table, Functions:(sum, average, count, vlookup).
- PowerBI
  - Creating key performance indicators (KPIs) and other business calculations, Data Modelling, toolips, creating Dashboard report.

### Explanatory Data Analysis (EDA)
The following business questions will be answered to assist in understanding this data and making the best recommenedation posssible using Microsoft Excel.
- What is the total sales (revenue) for each category of products.
- Determine which customer has placed the highest number of orders.
- Calculate the total sales generated by each employee.
- Show the trend in sales over time.
- Calculate the average time it takes to process an order from the order date to the
shipped date.

Also I will solve the following with PowerBI building a top-level KPI dashboard for the executive
team. Its purpose should be to allow them to quickly understand the company's performance in
key areas, including:
- Sales trends
- Product performance
- Key customers
- Shipping Cost


### Data Cleaning and preparations
To the initial data i added the follwing task:
- Revenue column
- I used vlook up to join two tables information.
- Added a currency symboll in all values where necessary.




